
A **software architecture** is an abstraction of the run-time elements of a software system during some phase of its operation. A system may be composed of many levels of abstraction and many phases of operation, each with its own software architecture.

### 1.1  Run time abstraction 

hiding some of the details of a system through encapsulation in order to better identify and sustain its properties. A complex system will contain many levels of abstraction, each with its own architecture.

An architecture represents an abstraction of system behavior at that level, such that architectural elements are delineated by the abstract interfaces they provide to other elements at that level. Within each element may be found another architecture, defining the system of sub-elements that implement the behavior represented by the parent element's abstract interface. This recursion of architectures continues down to the most basic system elements: those that cannot be decomposed into less abstract elements.

In addition to levels of architecture, a software system will often have multiple operational phases, such as start-up, initialization, normal processing, re-initialization, and shutdown. Each operational phase has its own architecture. For example, a configuration file will be treated as a data element during the start-up phase, but won't be considered an architectural element during normal processing, since at that point the information it contained will have already been distributed throughout the system.

### 1.2  Elements 

A software architecture is defined by a configuration of architectural elements--**components, connectors, and data**--constrained in their relationships in order to achieve a desired set of architectural properties.

The rationale behind the formation of software architecture does not defines the architecture itself. as once the proper architecture if formed the use it is put it might differ , but its important to know the rationale as an architecture has, by design, a set of properties that allow it to meet or exceed the system requirements and Ignorance of those properties may lead to later changes which violate the architecture.

thus Rationale explicates those properties, and lack of rationale may result in gradual decay or degradation of the architecture over time, but the rationale itself is not part of the architecture.

- **Components** is an abstract unit of software instructions and internal state that provides a transformation of data via its interface.
	- Example transformations include loading into memory from secondary storage, performing some calculation, translating to a different format, encapsulation with other data, etc.
- **Connectors**  is an abstract mechanism that mediates communication, coordination, or cooperation among components.
	- in this definition theres a difference between the software inside the connectors and components.
	- Connectors enable communication between components by transferring data elements from one interface to another without changing the data. Internally, a connector **may** consist of a subsystem of components that transform the data for transfer, perform the transfer, and then reverse the transformation for delivery.
- Data - an element of information that is transferred from a component, or received by a component, via a connector. **data-centric architectural modeling**.
	- Examples include byte-sequences, messages, marshalled parameters, and serialised objects, but do not include information that is permanently resident or hidden within a component.


### 1.3 Configuration
one might think of a configuration as being equivalent to a set of specific constraints on component interaction

### 1.4 Properties 

The set of architectural properties of a software architecture includes all properties that derive from the selection and arrangement of components, connectors, and data within the system.

- Examples include
	- relative ease of evolution, reusability of components, efficiency, and dynamic extensibility

Properties are induced by the set of constraints within an architecture.

- For example, 
	- the _uniform pipe-and-filter_ style obtains the qualities of reusability of components and configurability of the application by applying generality to its component interfaces -- constraining the components to a single interface type.
	- Hence, the architectural constraint is "**uniform component interface**," motivated by the generality principle, in order to obtain two desirable qualities that will become the architectural properties of reusable and configurable components when that style is instantiated within an architecture.

The goal of architectural design is to create an architecture with a set of architectural properties that form a superset of the system requirements. The relative importance of the various architectural properties depends on the nature of the intended system.



### 1.5 Styles 

|   |
|---|
|An **architectural style** is a coordinated set of architectural constraints that restricts the roles/features of architectural elements and the allowed relationships among those elements within any architecture that conforms to that style.|

Styles are a mechanism for categorizing architectures and for defining their common characteristics. Each style provides an abstraction for the interactions of components, capturing the essence of a pattern of interaction by ignoring the incidental details of the rest of the architecture.

Since architectural styles may address different aspects of software architecture, a given architecture may be composed of multiple styles. Likewise, a hybrid style can be formed by combining multiple basic styles into a single coordinated style.

Some architectural styles are often portrayed as "silver bullet" solutions for all forms of software. However, a good designer should select a style that matches the needs of the particular problem being solved.

Choosing the right architectural style for a network-based application requires an understanding of the problem domain and thereby the communication needs of the application, an awareness of the variety of architectural styles and the particular concerns they address, and the ability to anticipate the sensitivity of each interaction style to the characteristics of network-based communication.
