
### 1. Scope of the discussion 
 
The primary distinction between network-based architecture is in software architecture in general is that in network-based communication between components is restricted to message passing or the equivalent of message passing. If a more efficient mechanism can be selected at a runtime based on the location of components.
##### **Network-based versus  distributed**

a Distributed system is one that looks to its users like an ordinary centralized system, but runs on multiple, independent CPUs and is presented to the user as a single system where they can operate. 

In contrast, network-based systems are those capable of operation across a network, but not necessarily in a fashion that is transparent to the user.

here we are concerned with network-based applications

##### **Application software vs Networking software**

A hypermedia application must be concerned with the location of information pages, performing requests, and rendering data streams. This is in contrast to a networking abstraction, where the goal is to move bits from one location to another without regard to why those bits are being moved. It is only at the application level that we can evaluate design trade-offs based on the number of interactions per user action, the location of application state, the effective throughput of all data streams (as opposed to the potential throughput of a single data stream), the extent of communication being performed per user action, etc.


### 2. Evaluating the Design of application architectures  
##### how the task of selecting or creating the most appropriate architecture for a given application domain is done ? 

- An architectural style is a coordinated set of architectural constraints that has been given a name for ease of reference. Each architectural design decision can be seen as an application of a style.

- Since the addition of a constraint may derive a new style, we can think of the space of all possible architectural styles as a derivation tree, with its root being the null style (empty set of constraints). 

- When their constraints do not conflict, styles can be combined to form hybrid styles, eventually culminating in a hybrid style that represents a complete abstraction of the architectural design. 
- An architectural design can therefore be analyzed by breaking-down its set of constraints into a derivation tree and evaluating the cumulative effect of the constraints represented by that tree. 

- If we understand the properties induced by each basic style, then traversing the derivation tree gives us an understanding of the overall design's architectural properties. The specific needs of an application can then be matched against the properties of the design. Comparison becomes a relatively simple matter of identifying which architectural design satisfies the most desired properties for that application.

- building a derivation tree provides a mechanism for architectural design guidance

- The evaluation of architectural properties within a tree of styles is specific to the needs of a particular application domain because the impact of a given constraint is often dependent on the application characteristics. 
	- For example, the pipe-and-filter style enables several positive architectural properties when used within a system that requires data transformations between components, whereas it would add nothing but overhead to a system that consists only of control messages. Since it is rarely useful to compare architectural designs across different application domains, the simplest means of ensuring consistency is to make the tree domain-specific.



### 3. Architectural Properties of Key Interest

#### 3.1 Performance 

The performance of a network-based application is bound first by the application requirements, then by the chosen interaction style, followed by the realized architecture, and finally by the implementation of each component. In other words, software cannot avoid the basic cost of achieving the application needs; 
	- e.g., if the application requires that data be located on system A and processed on system B, then the software cannot avoid moving that data from A to B. Likewise, an architecture cannot be any more efficient than its interaction style allows; e.g., the cost of multiple interactions to move the data from A to B cannot be any less than that of a single interaction from A to B. 
	- Finally, regardless of the quality of an architecture, no interaction can take place faster than a component implementation can produce data and its recipient can consume data.

- Network Performance
	- Parameters
		- Throughput  - the rate at which information, including both application data and communication overhead, is transferred between components
			_Overhead_ can be separated into initial setup overhead and per-interaction overhead, a distinction which is useful for identifying connectors that can share setup overhead across multiple interactions (amortization).
		- Bandwidth
		- Usable Bandwidth 
	- Styles impact network performance by their influence on the number of interactions per user action.
		- example :-
		- A style that encourages small, strongly typed interactions will be efficient in an application involving small data transfers among known components, but will cause excessive overhead within applications that involve large data transfers or negotiated interfaces.
		- Likewise, a style that involves the coordination of multiple components arranged to filter a large data stream will be out of place in an application that primarily requires small control messages.
- User-perceived Performance
	- User-perceived performance differs from network performance in that the performance of an action is measured in terms of its impact on the user in front of an application rather than the rate at which the network moves information
	- Performance Parameters - 
		- Latency
		- Completion time
	- Latency - Latency is the time period between initial stimulus and the first indication of a response.
		1. the time needed for the application to recognize the event that initiated the action;
		2. the time required to setup the interactions between components
		3. the time required to transmit each interaction to the components (network)
		4. the time required to process each interaction on those components
		5. the time required to complete sufficient transfer and processing of the result of the interactions before the application is able to begin rendering a usable result (network)
		- network - actual network communication
		- all five points can be impacted by the architectural style. Furthermore, multiple component interactions per user action are additive to latency unless they take place in parallel.
	- Completion - amount of time taken to complete an application action, completion time is dependent upon all of the above measures.
		- The difference between an action's completion time and its latency represents the degree to which the application is incrementally processing the data being received. 
		- For example, a Web browser that can render a large image while it is being received provides significantly better user-perceived performance than one that waits until the entire image is completely received prior to rendering, even though both experience the same network performance
	- Theres a tradeoff between latency and completion.
#### 3.2 Scalability 
- Scalability refers to the ability of the architecture to support large numbers of components, or interactions among components, within an active configuration.

- Scalability can be improved by simplifying components, by distributing services across many components (decentralizing the interactions), and by controlling interactions and configurations as a result of monitoring

- Scalability is also impacted by the frequency of interactions, whether the load on a component is distributed evenly over time or occurs in peaks, whether an interaction requires guaranteed delivery or a best-effort, whether a request involves synchronous or asynchronous handling, and whether the environment is controlled or anarchic

#### 3.3 Simplicity 
The primary means by which architectural styles induce simplicity is by applying the principle of separation of concerns to the allocation of functionality within components. If functionality can be allocated such that the individual components are substantially less complex, then they will be easier to understand and implement.

#### 3.4 Modifiability
Modifiability is about the ease with which a change can be made to an application architecture.
A particular concern of network-based systems is dynamic modifiability, where the modification is made to a deployed application without stopping and restarting the entire system.
