
### REST == "REpresentational State Transfer"
- **RE**presentational
- **S**tate
- **T**ransfer

Representational State Transfer (REST) is a style of architecture based on a set of principles that describe how networked resources are defined and addressed.

An application or architecture considered RESTful or REST-style is characterized by:
- State and functionality are divided into distributed resources
- Every resource is uniquely addressable using a uniform and minimal set of commands (typically using HTTP commands of GET, POST, PUT, or DELETE over the Internet)
- The protocol is client/server, stateless, layered, and supports caching

The basic idea of REST is that a resource, e.g. a document, is transferred via well-recognized, language-agnostic, and reliably standardised client/server interactions. Services are deemed RESTful when they adhere to these constraints.

- Use existing standards ( HTTP, JSON, URL )
- Endpoints are collections of data ( not functions as where in the old web )
- Use GET, POST, PUT and DELETE http methods to communicate the action that we're performing on  that collection of data.
- The above only make sense when we have **Client and Server architecture**. both client and server have distinct sets of responsibilities. they are both concerned with different things and communicate with each other to get the job done.
- And our request is both
	- **Sateless & Cacheable**
	- where stateless refers to that each request is separate and not connected to any state on the client thats not included in the request. so our server is not keeping track of which requests our user has made today or in the past hour or in their current session. we only keep track of the data in our collections but these are independent of the state of the front end of the clients.
	- What that means is that the clients could open a new browser on a new computer and with the exact same request  , they get the exact same data from the server.  - stateless 
	- the opposite of stateless would be an API that tracks user data in a session which sticks around between requests to the server. 
		- for example in PHP, the server keeps track of this table of all the users which are making request against it in this session variable, we don't want anything like that in our restful APIs

	- Cacheable
		 - So our request keeps track of all our states, which means that we can cache requests by saving the results for future use without having to perform all of those actions again.  we can minimize the amount of work that the server needs to do and increase performance without having to worry about the users data on the client side. we only really need to look at the data on the server side those collections of data to see what's been updated or not. 


### Resource-based

- Things(resources) instead of actions
- Nouns instead of verbs
- Versus SOAP-RPC ( here we talk about the methods or actions we can take on that API ).
	- In a SOAP sense we call " get user data "
	- whereas in RESTful we would " call a URI or a resource and we would use a http verb and dictate what operation we would want to do on that  "
- Resources are Identified by URIs
	- and those individual resources are identified in each request 
	- Multiple URIs may refer to same resource
- Resources are separate from their representations.
	- its important to know that representations are not themselves the resource , they represent the resource.

### Manipulation of Resources Through Representations

When a client holds a representation of a resource, including any metadata attached, it has enough information to modify or delete the resource on the server, provided it has permission to do so

- How resources get manipulated in restful api architecture
- Part of the resource state
	- and this representation gets transferred between client and server
- typically JSON or XML
- Example:
	- Resource: Person (Todd)
	- Service: contact information (GET)
	- Representation:
		- name, address, phone number - JSON or XML format